#Minimum-Spanning-Tree-using-MiniSATplus
Finding Minimum Spanning Tree of an Undirected Graph using MiniSAT+

Description:
====================

SAT solver for finding Minimum Spanning Tree.

This program is for finding Minimum Spanning Tree that will transform a undirected graph into an instance of the NP-complete SAT problem. It will read an undirected graph and convert it to a set of pseudo boolean formulae (used by SAT solvers) to find the spanning tree with minimum cost.

Instructions:
====================
Before running the python file, it is necessary to install Python language software package "NetworkX". It can be installed by running the following command:

			sudo apt-get install python-pip
			sudo pip install networkx
	
After installing "NetworkX", run the following command (assuming minisat+ is installed on the machine, put all files in the minisat+ folder):

			"python mst.py"

Contents:
====================

The submission includes the following files:

mst.py 
--------

The mst.py program will read in the input file. This file also includes commands to run minisat+ and generate several output files.

input.txt
---------

Contains the nodes, edges and weight of undirected graph. The input format should be as follows:

	1. First line will be total number of nodes.
	2. Second line will contains edges in increasing order of node numbers i.e. all the edges of first node then second node and so on.
	3. Third line will contain the corresponding edge weight following the same order.


Files generated by the program:
---------------------------------

cycle.txt: Contains all the cycles in the given undirected graph

output.txt: MiniSAT+ generated output from terminal

output1.txt: Auxilary file made from output.txt and contains the edges that are included in the Minimum Spanning Tree

output2.txt: Contains the final solution with all the edges and their weights that are included in the Minimum Spanning Tree\

constraint.opb: Contains all generated constraints

Methodology:
====================

The program begins by reading in the input file which is an undirected graph and it finds cycles in it. All the cycles in the undirected graph are then written in a file 'cycle.txt'. It then generates all the Pseudo Boolean Constraints in the file named 'constraint.opb'. This file is fed as input to MiniSAT+ and the terminal result is kept in a file named 'output.txt'. This output file is parsed and the details of the nodes involved in the Minimum Spanning Tree is written separately on a file named 'output1.txt'. From this file the final solution interpretation is done and the result is kept in 'output2.txt'. The 'mst.py' also generates the Minimum Spanning Tree in GUI.

